# The-SECRET-WEAPON-IN-COVID-19-CONTROL-
Data Story: COVID-19 Analysis – Testing Rates vs. Confirmed Cases (January–July 2020)
Introduction
We cannot easily forget the virus that brought about social distancing and face mask usage. COVID-19 also known as Corona Virus started as just one strange sickness in China but quickly spread like wildfire, affecting every corner of the globe. The pandemic significantly affected the world, causing many deaths, overwhelming hospitals, and widespread socio-economic disruption. Since its emergence, there had been research and analysis to understand the pandemic’s trajectory, this project seeks to add to the growing body of the analysis that has come before it. This analysis explores the interplay between testing rates and confirmed cases during the early months of the pandemic (January, 2020 to July, 2020) to understand how testing influenced case detection.
Literature Review
Many research has focused on various aspects of COVID-19 data analysis which include findings from WHO on the total number of death report and confirmed cases during the early months of the pandemic. The finding stated 713K death report and over 19M confirmed cases. Additionally, this analysis highlights the top 10 countries with the highest case and death counts during our analysis period.
TOP 10 CHART!!!
The charts highlight the top 10 countries with the highest COVID-19 case and death counts. Countries like Russia and South Africa exhibits high case count but did not appear in the top death cases, which may indicate that they effectively managed the pandemic. The United States, Brazil and India are at the top list of the countries with the highest COVID-19 case and death counts, these are countries with large populations and city hotspots which tend to denote transmission through crowd or overwhelming healthcare systems.
Explanation of Analysis
Meanwhile, the focus of our project is on understanding the relationship between testing rates and case counts during the first seven months of 2020. Testing is important to aid early detection and implementation of proactive measure to limit the spread of the virus. Here are the highlights of our analysis.
A comparative analysis was done to check the rate of test performed to the number of confirmed cases across continents.
CHART!!!
The charts provide insights into the pandemic's detection and spread pattern across continents. It is observed that Oceania has a high testing rate with a low case count, suggesting that extensive routine testing was done and may result to deploying strong preventive measure to contain the outbreak. The data further revealed that most continents have a similar testing-to-case trend over the time covered. This suggests that there was a coordinated global response to the pandemic.
Also, time-series analysis was done to identify trends in testing rate from January, 2020 to July, 2020.
CHART!!!
These graphs track the test rates and case counts over the analysis period. The analysis revealed that in the initial months (January - March), there were low testing rates with more cases reported. In April and May 2020, there was a significant increase in the testing trend reflecting that the global testing efforts has scaled up and there was decline in case counts. The peak in testing rates during June - July and the case counts fall signify that there was increased global awareness of the virus at that time and effective strategies to reduce the spread were in action. This inverse relationship implies that widespread testing may be an effective strategy for controlling the spread of the virus.
Methodology
The dataset was sourced from Worldometer, a data repository for coronavirus statistics. The data cleaning and preparation steps included deleting columns that were not needed for this analysis, formatting data types and standardizing formats for consistency across entries. This is to ensure that the dataset is accurate for analysis. We used MS Excel for the data cleaning process, Power Query to check data quality (cross-check inconsistent values or columns) and Power BI for the interactive dashboards to present our findings visually. The analysis explored variables including total cases, total deaths, tests conducted, continents, population and date.
Conclusion
To conclude, our analysis highlights the clear role widespread testing plays in managing the spread of COVID-19. As the pandemic continues to evolve, it was crucial for countries to prioritize testing to contain the outbreak and prevent further transmission.
Recommendations
From our findings, we recommend countries should share best practices and resources among themselves to address disparities in healthcare and testing access. This will strengthen global collaboration. And for further research, we recommend that further studies should explore the effectiveness of combining social distancing measures with face masks mandates in reducing COVID-19 cases, as these initiatives rolled out due to the virus spread.
